000000000111111111122222222223333333333444444
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345
---------------------------------------------
In the second century of the Christian Aera, 
the empire of Rome comprehended the fairest 
part of the earth, and the most civilized 
portion of mankind. The frontiers of that 
extensive monarchy were guarded by ancient 
renown and disciplined valor. The gentle but 
powerful influence of laws and manners had 
gradually cemented the union of the 
provinces. Their peaceful inhabitants enjoyed 
and abused the advantages of wealth and 
luxury. The image of a free constitution was 
preserved with decent reverence: the Roman 
senate appeared to possess the sovereign 
authority, and devolved on the emperors all 
the executive powers of government. During a 
happy period of more than fourscore years, 
the public administration was conducted by 
the virtue and abilities of Nerva, Trajan, 
Hadrian, and the two Antonines. It is the 
design of this, and of the two succeeding 
chapters, to describe the prosperous 
condition of their empire; and after wards, 
from the death of Marcus Antoninus, to deduce 
the most important circumstances of its 
decline and fall; a revolution which will 
ever be remembered, and is still felt by the 
nations of the earth. The principal conquests 
of the Romans were achieved under the 
republic; and the emperors, for the most 
part, were satisfied with preserving those 
dominions which had been acquired by the 
policy of the senate, the active emulations 
of the consuls, and the martial enthusiasm of 
the people. The seven first centuries were 
filled with a rapid succession of triumphs; 
but it was reserved for Augustus to 
relinquish the ambitious design of subduing 
the whole earth, and to introduce a spirit of 
moderation into the public councils. Inclined 
to peace by his temper and situation, it was 
easy for him to discover that Rome, in her 
present exalted situation, had much less to 
hope than to fear from the chance of arms; 
and that, in the prosecution of remote wars, 
the undertaking became every day more 
difficult, the event more doubtful, and the 
possession more precarious, and less 
beneficial. The experience of Augustus added 
weight to these salutary reflections, and 
effectually convinced him that, by the 
prudent vigor of his counsels, it would be 
easy to secure every concession which the 
safety or the dignity of Rome might require 
from the most formidable barbarians. Instead 
of exposing his person and his legions to the 
arrows of the Parthians, he obtained, by an 
honorable treaty, the restitution of the 
standards and prisoners which had been taken 
in the defeat of Crassus. 
